README.md, before:

# pd-oncall-chat-topic
AWS Lambda Function that updates a Chat Room topic (eg, Slack)

![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/master/screenshot.png)


## Motivation
At [PagerDuty](https://www.pagerduty.com/), we
[use](https://www.pagerduty.com/blog/how-does-pagerduty-use-pagerduty/)
PagerDuty to manage our on-call schedules. One integration that we like is
knowing who is on-call for a given team, via posting the information in a Slack
channel topic.

At PagerDuty Summit, one of our customers asked if we have this integration
open-sourced for them to use as well. At the time, we did not, it was deeply
integrated into our ChatOps tooling that is very specific to the PagerDuty
infrastructure. However, this integration is applicable to many other
organizations.

This project started at one of our Hack Days, a day put aside monthly for
employees to build and present projects or ideas that fulfill some kind of need
at the company.

## How to Deploy
1. Create an Integrated Bot that you can invite to your channel. https://my.slack.com/services/new/bot
2. Obtain a PagerDuty API Key (v2) [Directions Here](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/using-the-api#section-generating-an-api-key)
3. Deploy CloudFormation
  - Clone repo
  - Modify 2 variables for your AWS Environment
    ([Makefile#L1-L2](https://github.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/blob/master/Makefile#L1-L2))
  - `make deploy`
4. Write API Keys to EC2 SSM Parameter Store.
  - The lambda function expects certain key names by default so the following
    commands should work unless modified elsewhere (advanced config).
  - `make put-pd-key`
  - `make put-slack-key`
5. Write Config to DynomoDB for which channels to update.
  - It is possible to use the AWS CLI for this (or finish
    [#4](https://github.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/issues/4) for ease of
    use)
  - In lieu of above, manually update the table with item entries of this format:
  ```
  {
    "schedule": "P123456",
    "slack": "C123456",
    "sched_name": "Optional schedule name to use in topic"
  }
  ```
  (where `schedule` is the PagerDuty Schedule ID, and `slack` is the Slack
  Channel ID. You can have a space-separated list of channels. `sched_name` is
  optional and if omitted will be looked up)

## Architecture
The main part of this infrastructure is an AWS Lambda Function that operates on
a schedule (cron), reads configuration information from an DynomoDB Table and
secrets from AWS EC2 Parameter Store. This is all deployed from a AWS
CloudFormation template.

![Architecture Diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/master/diagram.png)

## Cost
The way that this Lambda Function is configured, is to run on a schedule every 5
minutes. Some basic (anecdotal) testing revealed that the execution is about 5
seconds per 5 updates (via threading). Assuming double that and erroring on the
side of a large configuration (10x) the execution time will cost below $2/month.
The DDB table will cost, ~$0.60/month.


## Contact
This integration is primarily maintained by the SRE Team at PagerDuty. The best
way to reach us is by opening a GitHub issue.

Commit message:

lambda: set slack \@handle
It's nice to be able to set \@handle in Slack topic because it allows
person to be notified by Slack when they go oncall, and because other
people can click that handle to go to DM or get info about the oncall
person.

This commit makes this the new behavior in lambda/main.py. Because this
behavior requires getting Slack user from the Slack API, and because Bot
users don't have that permission, this commit also updates README.md
with instructions on creating an App user with sufficient permissions.

README.md, after:

# pd-oncall-chat-topic
AWS Lambda Function that updates a Chat Room topic (eg, Slack)

![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/master/screenshot.png)


## Motivation
At [PagerDuty](https://www.pagerduty.com/), we
[use](https://www.pagerduty.com/blog/how-does-pagerduty-use-pagerduty/)
PagerDuty to manage our on-call schedules. One integration that we like is
knowing who is on-call for a given team, via posting the information in a Slack
channel topic.

At PagerDuty Summit, one of our customers asked if we have this integration
open-sourced for them to use as well. At the time, we did not, it was deeply
integrated into our ChatOps tooling that is very specific to the PagerDuty
infrastructure. However, this integration is applicable to many other
organizations.

This project started at one of our Hack Days, a day put aside monthly for
employees to build and present projects or ideas that fulfill some kind of need
at the company.

## How to Deploy
1. Create an App that you can invite to your channel.
  - Go to [Slack Apps](https://api.slack.com/apps) and click "Create New App"
  - Set App Name and Development Slack Workspace
  - Add OAuth scopes: `channels.manage`, `channels:read`, `groups:read`,
    `im:write`, `mpim:read`, `users:read`, `users:read.email`
  - Install App to Workspace
  - Invite App to channel where you want topic updated
2. Obtain a PagerDuty API Key (v2) [Directions Here](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/using-the-api#section-generating-an-api-key)
3. Deploy CloudFormation
  - Clone repo
  - Modify 2 variables for your AWS Environment
    ([Makefile#L1-L2](https://github.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/blob/master/Makefile#L1-L2))
  - `make deploy`
4. Write API Keys to EC2 SSM Parameter Store.
  - The lambda function expects certain key names by default so the following
    commands should work unless modified elsewhere (advanced config).
  - `make put-pd-key`
  - `make put-slack-key`
5. Write Config to DynomoDB for which channels to update.
  - It is possible to use the AWS CLI for this (or finish
    [#4](https://github.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/issues/4) for ease of
    use)
  - In lieu of above, manually update the table with item entries of this format:
  ```
  {
    "schedule": "P123456",
    "slack": "C123456",
    "sched_name": "Optional schedule name to use in topic"
  }
  ```
  (where `schedule` is the PagerDuty Schedule ID, and `slack` is the Slack
  Channel ID. You can have a space-separated list of channels. `sched_name` is
  optional and if omitted will be looked up)

## Architecture
The main part of this infrastructure is an AWS Lambda Function that operates on
a schedule (cron), reads configuration information from an DynomoDB Table and
secrets from AWS EC2 Parameter Store. This is all deployed from a AWS
CloudFormation template.

![Architecture Diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PagerDuty/pd-oncall-chat-topic/master/diagram.png)

## Cost
The way that this Lambda Function is configured, is to run on a schedule every 5
minutes. Some basic (anecdotal) testing revealed that the execution is about 5
seconds per 5 updates (via threading). Assuming double that and erroring on the
side of a large configuration (10x) the execution time will cost below $2/month.
The DDB table will cost, ~$0.60/month.


## Contact
This integration is primarily maintained by the SRE Team at PagerDuty. The best
way to reach us is by opening a GitHub issue.
